hi everyone and welcome back la Isla
Montgomery here with another China
history podcast episode for you part 2
and our 5,000 year overview of the
history of Xin Jiang I mentioned before
and I'll say it again the term Xin Jung
didn't get affixed to that part of China
until 1884 following a major and
historic revolt that happened out there
we'll get to that in good time so it's
strictly for the sake of inconvenience
that I'll refer to that land as Xin
Jiang throughout this series well last
time we went up as high as Felix
Baumgartner again looking down on the
geography of Xinjiang surrounded in
every direction with dense mountain
chains the tension and all-time
mountains to the north the quinlan
mountains to the south and the pas mares
to the west and the star of this whole
production was the Tarim basin totally
surrounded by these mountains real
mountains like you seen a National
Geographic special not these Hollywood
Hills air and deserts they could stand
toe-to-toe with anything you could find
in the Sahara or rubra Kiley it was a
harsh environment but over the past 5000
years there were times when it was a lot
less harsh than it was at other times
and besides the Tarim basin there were
also two other notable basins where a
lot of history played out over the
millennia that swung garyun basin in the
north and the turpan basin located in
between the two we looked at the
towering mummies and how that opened up
a whole new chapter in the prehistory of
that region we noted a number of Western
explorers adventurers and scholars who
got the ball rolling with the earliest
excavation and study of these mummies
and all the garments and artifacts they
were buried with and there were also a
number of theories about who these
Caucasoid original inhabitants were
where they came from and well when they
got there what language they spoke I
prominently mentioned the works of
Victor Mayer and all the colleagues who
worked with him or in his wake a lot of
their books and videos I have listed in
the show notes at
website and teacup top media so let's
leave this prehistory behind like
anything in history the further back you
go in time and unless shish-kabob there
is on that skewer but we won't have that
problem the closer we get to the Ching
dynasty I mentioned these Caucasoid
Europe oide people who it was suggested
were these earliest inhabitants found in
these graves and Lolan and shale huh and
elsewhere the ancestors of these mummies
unearthed there weren't indigenous to
the region where they were interred and
they came from somewhere else
west of their final resting place
perhaps from north of the Black Sea via
the earliest human highway the great
Eurasian steppe or as the Chinese called
it later on the tolerances holder loop
the Silk Road of the steppe I didn't
mention them last time but also sharing
the Tarim Basin with these early
indo-european settlers were another
ancient people called the Sokka the
Chinese called them the sigh they were
also a Caucasoid people but proto
iranian and their language was from the
indo-iranian branch of the indo-european
family
these Sokka were closely related to the
Scythian x' he could find them scattered
all around Central Asia
lots of Legends and lore surrounding the
Sokka people will mention them again
when we discuss the kingdom of Houghton
and Kashgar both of those places were
inhabited primarily by speakers of this
indo-iranian Sokka language these Sokka
people as was the case with so many of
these Silk Road era kingdoms and States
but we hear about them secondhand or by
studying the relics dug out of their
tombs and you could find Sokka graves in
and around the Tarim basin
that's how archeologists are able to
differentiate who was who human
civilization all over the world all had
their own little burial quirks the Sokka
people they're part of Xin Jiang was the
e Li River Valley now most of the 894
or mile-long Ely River is in Kazakhstan
go check out the Ely River and Google
Earth it's like the Nile in Egypt on
both sides of the river are lush green
fields farmers paradise but stray too
distant from the Ely River and the land
starts getting brown and desolate very
fast this is a Northwest shinjang and
northeast Kazakhstan the Ely River
Valley area this was where the Sokka
settled some say around 500 to 300 BCE
the oldest Sokka artifacts found so far
been dated even earlier to around the
8th century BCE Western Jo dynasty in
China the Sokka had a nemesis in another
group of people known as the U the U
edger originally came from its thoughts
from around Western gansu province and
like every single one of these people we
don't have any absolute proof or
photographic evidence of their origins
but it's heavily believed Western Gansu
east and west of doom Wong their proto
yet your ancestors may or may not have
been among the Taira mummies the adjure
were the strongest and most militant of
the various tribes in that area western
Gansu and into Eastern Xin Jiang
everything was going along fine for the
you had sure until the end of the 3rd
century and beginning of the second
this is BCE still when they lost their
place at the top of the food chain which
brings us to the show know the
mysterious show-nu we're still trying to
figure out who they were it's been
suggested there was some DNA link that
put them in the same category as the
Huns of Attila the Hun Fame the 5th
century scourge of just about everybody
between the Black Sea and Central Europe
including the Western Roman Empire by
then of course a far cry from the
condition Caesar Augustus had left it in
these Huns and the show knew maybe maybe
not you often see them referred to in
some books is hung
no one has pinned down the show knew for
certain but besides their possible
hunnic origin there are multiple
compelling arguments attesting to their
Iranian origin or perhaps Mongol or even
Turkic origins in other words who knows
back and chin sure Wong's time Qin
Dynasty 221 to 206 BCE the Xiong nu were
up in their homeland mining their
business but under their leader
Tolman they were growing more numerous
and powerful every day Qin Shihuang and
his advisers saw what was going on and
viewed the Xiong nu as a clear and
present danger so they decided to nip
this one in the bud and called for a
preemptive strike against the Xiong nu
at that time the show new nation was
situated up around the Ordos loop that
most interesting part of the Yellow
River the Ordos region northernmost
Shaanxi and Inner Mongolia that stretch
of the Yellow River and the region at
surrounds is called the Ordos loop
that's where it's believed the Xiong nu
originally came from the ancient Xin
kingdom during the warring States Period
and now the Qin Empire also based around
Shaanxi province they knew all about
them
so the might each ensure Wong's great
general Muntean he headed towards the
Ordos region with an army to meet the
Xiong nu in battle and shut them down
before they became too powerful and 215
BCE
deshaun knew under the leadership of
Tommen were overpowered he was forced to
lead a retreat to the north and the
Xiong nu left their homeland for the
steppes of Mongolia there they did what
all these conquered tribes did whenever
they got displaced by a more powerful
neighbor they regrouped and their
leaders decided on the next move in
which direction his nation should head
the decision that this ethno-linguistic
group of people we call the Xiong nu
made was that they said the better way
to go was to split up and spread out but
remain as one through a confederation of
tribes led by one guy jingis Kahn will
come up with the exact same plan more
than a thousand years later but of
course on a much grander scale and then
at this low point for the defeated Zhang
knew like a sudden unexpected plot twist
in a movie two things happened first
Qing Chuang died and along with his
death came the quick demise of his
dynasty and at the very same moment that
the first emperor of China dies amongst
the Xiong nu this charismatic and
powerful leader emerged he was a real
warrior
this was Toma and son Mordo he was a
real bloodthirsty rough fellow the
stories attributed to him by Chinese
historians and it don't paint him in a
very positive light in 209 BCE a year
after the death of the Qin Emperor madu
had his father Tollman killed and Madhu
took over as the leader of the Xiong nu
just as the mongols called their rulers
cons the show new leaders title was Chen
Yu and you see it also spelled and
pronounced this Shan Yu so Maruchan you
was a pretty major influence and all the
events that started to happen in East
Central Asia including in Xin Jiang
Maruchan you had some real big ambitions
for the Xiong nu by 203 BCE he had
shaken things up sufficiently enough
that he was the acknowledged head of the
Confederation of all shun new tribes
then he went to war first up were the
you etcher
who he fought for wars with the you
etcher who had been the dominant tribe
on the steppe and in shinjang were
vanquished and forced to split up into
two groups known as the little and great
nature the little uture headed south and
joined up with the chung people around
the Tibetan Plateau and Ching hai the
great uture around 165 BCE migrated in
the direction of the ely valley
and to tie these loose ends together
these displaced ginger defeated the
indo-iranian sokka's who I mentioned
called the Ely Valley home and sent them
packing for greener pastures just to the
west of shinjang the great you edger
didn't last long in their idyllic you
leave Ally lands and 132 BCE they
themselves were forced out of there by a
show new ally called the loose one there
were another tribe like the you had sure
who lived in harmony with them back in
the old ghan Sioux days anyway more
about that was soon later the upshot of
all this conflict was that the great
future ended up settling along one of
the longest rivers of Central Asia the
AMA Darya or the al-mu River also known
as the access River from which we get
transaxial a land beyond the Oxus River
of course it was known by many other
names to the you had juror settled in
this part of Central Asia where one of
the legacies of Alexander the Great's
conquests was located the former kingdom
of Bactria
the uture battled amongst themselves and
ultimately formed a new political state
that became known as the Guang Empire
but perhaps better known in the West as
the Kushan Empire this Kushan Empire
later became the dominant force that
held sway over the westernmost region of
the atarime basin so by the start of the
second century BCE the Xiong nu are
fully energized and organized with the
most powerful leader the Xiong nu will
ever know in charge at the peak of his
powers maldo China's rise to power and
the aggressive strategy he had
formulated against all the neighbors to
the south and it worked out well
under moto Chon you the show new
Confederation had become an empire that
encompassed all the traditional
homelands and stretched west into
eastern central asia the show knew did
more than just conquer and intimidate
the more sedentary societies to the
of them they have established a kind of
extortion racket that involved forced
tribute from these less warlike
neighbors then they got filthy rich and
well-fed off this method by the time of
mulch on use death and 174 BCE people
were petrified of the Xiong nu as they
were 1,400 years later when the Mongols
were starting to ramp up Madu China's
rise coincided with the rise of one
other significant player in the region
namely Han Dynasty China Leo pang the
founder was born sometime around 256 BCE
still can't find his birth certificate
he beat Xiang Yu of Chu at geisha in 202
BCE and after putting this one powerful
rival away he went on to form the Han
Dynasty in that same year
Leo bung situated the capital of his han
dynasty and Chung on not far from where
she sure Wong ran his short-lived
dynasty and Leo bung needed some time to
recover from the civil war in China that
he had just emerged victorious from
there was no love lost between the Xiong
nu and the Chinese back when the Qin
Dynasty was at the peak of their power
they had clobbered the show no who were
led by mother China's father Tollman
and as I said they were forced to
retreat far to the north well now they
were back and they leaned as hard on Han
China as they did on everyone else and
China's wealth their agricultural bounty
and all those spectacular products they
manufactured were coveted madly by the
shondo the general consensus at the han
palace was that they needed to assemble
an army to go due to the show knew what
the qin general Muntean had done back in
215 BCE give him a nice short sharp
shock and the founding emperor Han
called su goodall luckily opung he led
the forces himself in short didn't work
out well and the Xiong nu that Han
called su faced were a much bigger and
were forced to reckon with than what she
sure Wong and Muntean had to face down
that first attempt to scare this young
new didn't work out well so the Han
Court all put their heads together and
decided they needed some time to get in
shape and build up their military before
they could dare face down the show no
and in order to placate these nomadic
bad boys and keep Waldo Chinese soldiers
north of the Great Wall the Qin system
was created the for Han Emperor's Gao su
way when inching between 198 and 152 BCE
instituted this Kerching system that saw
them marrying off their own daughters
they're very old
Qin this this means you're kin or a
bride to keep the hood the peace they
offered them two more - Chon Yu and his
successors who held the China title and
the Han Emperor not only had to offer up
one of his daughters he had to accept
the show mooch on you as his political
equal and no one in China liked it but
this hood Xin system pretty much ensured
minimal harassment by the Xiong nu and
this system continued on and off until
the mid a century into the Tong and
that's not all besides handing over a
royal princess and marriage to the
reigning Xiong nu Chon you and accepting
him as equal the imperial court had to
hand over a lot of gifts to all the
usual kinds of things these northern
peoples demanded and don't think for a
second these Xiong nu Chon use were a
bunch of vulgar barbarians living in
tents on the steppe with everything they
were able to extort from the Chinese
emperors they learned how to live quite
large themselves and they built these
grand palaces just like the Chinese so
this hated her Chien system well I guess
the show knew didn't hate it so much it
worked but no one liked it and the
squeezing got a little bit tighter each
time the Chinese envoys sat down to
negotiate with their show-nu tormentors
then after all these years of
appeasement along comes some say agree
but surely one of the greatest of all
Chinese emperors good old lyosha who
reigned for a heck of a long time
141 287 BCE and the West that was from
the third Punic War clear through to the
rise of sulla
he was the Emperor Wu who meant marshal
or warrior he busted things wide open as
far as Chinese expansion beyond the
traditional central plain he knew how to
fight and he put a lot of capital into
building up the kind of military force
that could back up his ambitions this
Emperor hon wu t declared he wasn't
going to take it anymore and early into
his reign he organized a daring strike
against the show-nu again long story
short this first attempt to rid himself
of his problem it failed miserably
an emperor wu han wildy he almost got
captured and what a disaster that would
have been while Chinese officials mulled
over their next move someone had gotten
word to the Emperor that the uture and
175 BCE had been driven from their
homeland in western Gansu by the Xiong
nu and that the unit chieftain had been
captured killed and the Xiong nu leader
who had killed him cut off his head and
drink wine from the UN sure Kings skull
someone convinced the Hun Emperor Wu
that this would be the perfect time to
seek out an alliance with the edger
while their emotions were still hot a
Han future alliance might be enough
muscle power to push the show new as far
away as possible from the China
heartland south of the Great Wall this
is all discussed in that Jung Qin
episode CHP 47 if you want the longer
version go give that a listen a little
link at the show notes but I'll tell it
to you very quickly here this is all
straight out of the records of the grand
historian in the book of Han it's one of
the greatest stories from ancient
Chinese history in a personal favorite
of your humble narrator so early in Han
bootys 54 year long reign 139 BCE a man
named Jiang Chen known for his
experience dealing with the Western
peoples and for his gift for languages
he was called in and tasked with a
secret mission
and if he pulled off this mission
impossible it would mean that the Han
armies would be able to join together
with the Yetta had pushed these zhangmu
far away from where they couldn't
threaten anyone anymore and the kicker
was that how could that you had sure
possibly say no to an alliance after
being so utterly disrespected and
humiliated by the Xiong nu kicked out of
their lands their enemy drinking wine
out of the cranium of the ureter leader
slam dunk
the other thing Chung chin had to do was
carry out some recon and obtain intel on
the availability of the fabled Fergana
horses who were supposedly built for
battle in Chinese they called these
striking animals Tenma heavenly horses
if you've ever seen those ceramic tang
dynasty horses these were them these
horses were located around the land
called Dharan in the Fergana Valley
today's northern Tajikistan well let's
just say jongshin's whole mission didn't
go as planned he set out with a hundred
men and in no time at all he got
captured by the Xiong nu and sent to the
far north and held prisoner for ten
years
it wasn't all bad he was given a show
new wife and they had a son and he made
the best of a bad situation
then one day ten years later opportunity
knocked and Jung shin was able to make a
getaway
and started heading in the direction of
the you had your territory in the ely
valley remember at the beginning of the
episode the indo-iranian Sokka people
originally inhabited those lands and
were pushed out by the you edger this is
again northwest border of scenes young
well so much time had passed while jung
jin was held under this kind of house
arrest when he got to ely he learned the
you had sure had already been pushed out
by the shownu and we're now down and the
south of Ching hai but also living along
the amo Darya farther to the West in
Bactria so Jung chin at
long last made his way to the land of
the good cheer and when he finally got
to pay us on Emperor Wu's offer
they told him flat-out not interested
they didn't want any part of it
they had it nice here in this idyllic
part of Central Asia on the north bank
in a mood area and they were in no mood
for fighting anymore
and besides Han China with its capital
in Chang'an was her away and the show-nu
were close by and an ever-present threat
they had to send Jung Chan packing
empty-handed
all that for nothing and while he was
out in those lands beyond Xin Jiang as
far as procuring a trade partner to
supply these heavenly horses that didn't
end up well either these people who
inhabit at da UN they had no interest to
supply horses to the Han representatives
and for the next several years there
were a number of diplomatic dust-ups
between Han envoys trying in vain to set
up a heavenly horse supply chain with
the traders of DA UN by the time John
Chen returned to Chung on Emperor Wu was
still on the throne and I forgot to say
on the way back he was captured again
and held by the show-nu for a whole year
125 BCE he finally gets to tell everyone
at the Han Court what he saw
after more than 14 years exploring every
major trading center in the lands west
and south of Han China including all
these Owais estates the towering
basin he finally had the chance to
reveal the wonders he saw and everything
he told the Emperor and everyone
assembled at court was unknown by the
Han China government Fergana Bactria
india Parthia and many other places
zhang jian brought everyone at the han
court up to speed with what was
happening out in that part of the world
which was a lot more than what the
ruling class in china was aware of they
thought all this time they were it but
now lo and behold they find out there
were other great and substantial
kingdoms thriving beyond china's borders
so the secret was out and the kicker to
the whole odyssey of Jiang Chen was that
he saw the markets of these great
trading kingdoms of the Tyron basin he
visited almost every single one and how
precious and dear people held these
Chinese products while hearing this and
realizing the extent of the untapped
market han moody took it upon himself to
put in motion all the necessary measures
that facilitated the start of the Silk
Road and she and John plays probably the
most key role of all in the Silk Road
once you left China with a wagon train
full of silk tea and other high-value
goods and once you pass through the
Hershey corridor and Gansu past Ben Wong
and once she hits Xin Jiang you either
went to the right or to the left to the
north or to the south of the Tarim basin
to the trading highways that passed
goods knowledge and culture to all
points of Asia and beyond the known
world so jung jin's trip to ally with
the you had sure to take down the Xiong
nu didn't work but you could say in the
end his trip yielded a few good things
as spectacular as jung geun's adventures
were this young new problem remained
they were now gonna have to be gotten
rid of the hard way for two centuries
two decades and two years
133 BCE to 89 c ii the han dynasty after
a long hard slog and what was to become
known as the Han young new Wars took the
fight to the shownu and tried to
neutralize them as a terror it wasn't
easy
han moody threw down the gauntlet and
133 BCE while chang chen was in his
period of captivity by the Xiong nu
there was this failed attempt at luring
the Sheung note leadership into a trap
and the whole thing got found out and
just put everyone on the warpath the
enmity that the Chinese had for the
Xiong nu as well as their intentions
were all out in the open now the Han
army at this time 133 BCE during Han
will Dee's reign was
how much bigger and stronger and to lead
these Han troops against the Xiong nu
were too fearless sons of Linfen Shaanxi
province these were generals watch you
Bing and waiting during the early Han
Xiang nu wars their armies did most of
the heavy lifting in the vanquishing of
the Xiong nu threat and in pushing out
the boundaries of Han China all the way
through the hood she corridor and into
Xin Jiang province which as I said
wasn't called shinjang yet so in a
series of battles and major campaigns
beginning in 133 BCE and lasting for
over 30 years the Han armies pushed the
show-nu out of the regions they had
occupied during wadu' Chinese time
unfortunately for the Han this warrior
Chon you of the Xiong nu who had created
their empire only live 40 years and was
gone by 174 BCE now the shoe was on the
other foot and it was the Chinese who
packed a bigger punch than their Chengdu
one time antagonize errs by 124 BCE the
Hun armies led by Ho Chi Bing and wait
Ching took the fight right into the show
no heartlands and the 121 BCE Battle of
her she saw the Xiong nu kicked out of
that part of Gansu Province that had the
only easy route in and out of Xinjiang
from the Chinese side and once the show
knew were pushed out of the hood she
corridor Chinese forces punched their
way through to lop nor and for the first
time planted the Chinese flag and
shinjang but it wasn't over yet
the ringing of Oasis kingdoms
surrounding the towering basin and the
Taklamakan desert contained within had
been longtime cash cows for the show no
and they did not surrender to the Han so
easy it took a long time more than half
a century to pry the lest of the show
knew loose from that area but by 53 BCE
de Xiang knew once so feared dreaded
were vassals of the Han the Han
government set up an administration out
in those parts led by a do who the title
law of the head administrator for those
frontier regions and after the Han
military had garrisoned enough troops
out there and the place was secure they
also set up this twin Tien system that
allowed these Chinese troops and
administrator so far away from the
capital to be self-sufficient without
the need to keep resupplying the West
with agricultural products from the
China central plain
this twin Tien system began under
Emperor Wu hun kudi
and continued on and off into the
eastern Han James Millward calls these
twenty in colonies state farms worked by
Han soldiers this system worked well for
Han China and to help make the first
century BCE the high point of the Han
conquest of the Far West regions and his
whole idea of these 20n had staying
power and really was the only way to
efficiently manage government troops and
a Chinese presence in these very distant
lands next episode we'll see how all
this comes tumbling down the only ones
who are writing all this down all these
years were the Chinese historiographers
so pretty much everything learned about
this era Jiang Chen the UN chair this
young knew that was not dug out of the
ground and studied came straight from
the records of the grand historian in
the book of Han we in our day or well
quite thankful to have these ancient
reference works but it's important to
know that the Xiong nu and these people
who lived out in Xin Zhong and Central
Asia where
somewhat looked down upon by the
academic and imperial elites who wrote
these official histories any group of
people that fell into the nomads
classification was described as pretty
much a barbarian but still if not for
these works our understanding of this
time would be a lot less than what it is
now okay I dare not proceed any further
let's call it a day here we'll pick up
with Wang Mong next episode and see what
happened during the 14-year interlude
between the Western and Eastern Han
pretty much from here on out Xin Zhong
is gonna become quite an important place
in the China scheme of things so I beg
you don't walk away just yet much more
to come I assure you and we haven't even
gotten to the ching dynasty yet you know
I don't like asking but I'll ask again
if you'd like to donate to the CHP
PayPal dot me slash
China history podcast I'm down to the
last P Esther I could borrow you're also
welcome to sign up at patreon.com to
show your love and support you can hit
me up there if you want to get access to
all these stories I'm telling wholly
unsuitable for a family program is this
link set the show notes at the web site
at tea cup dot media thanks again
everyone Laszlo Montgomery signing off
from Los Angeles and the state of
confusion appealing to your better
instincts to join me next time for
another exciting episode of the China
history podcast